{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f77\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}{\f78\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f80\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f81\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}
{\f82\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f83\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}{\f84\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f85\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid15090126}{\*\generator Micr
osoft Word 11.0.6359;}{\info{\title OPENCLINICA INSTALLATION GUIDE for LINUX}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2011\mo8\dy14\hr7\min40}{\revtim\yr2011\mo8\dy14\hr7\min40}{\version2}{\edmins9}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords681}{\nofchars3882}{\*\company MS User}
{\nofcharsws4554}{\vern24703}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot15090126 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f4\insrsid15090126 OPENCLINICA INSTALLATION GUIDE for LINUX
\par OpenClinica Version ws-3.1.1
\par Document Version 1.0 
\par --------------------------------------------------------------
\par Updated: August 12th, 2011 smartin@akazaresearch.com, pgalvin@akazaresearch.com
\par 
\par About OpenClinica
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par OpenClinica: Open Source Software Platform for Managing Clinical Research Studies Professional Open Source Solutions for the Clinical Research Enterprise
\par 
\par OpenClinica is a free, ope
n source clinical trial software platform for Electronic Data Capture (EDC) clinical data management in clinical research. The software is web-based and designed to support all types of clinical studies in diverse research settings. From the ground up, Op
enClinica is built on leading independent standards to achieve high levels of interoperability. Its modular architecture and transparent, collaborative development model offer outstanding flexibility while supporting a robust, enterprise-quality solution.

\par 
\par More about OpenClinica: http://www.OpenClinica.org [^]
\par 
\par Software License
\par 
\par OpenClinica is distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (GNU LGPL). For details see: http://www.openclinica.org/license [^] or LICENSE.txt distributed with this distribution.}{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par 
\par Web Services Install
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 If you are installing web services on a different server than your web application, please refer to }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f4\insrsid15090126 HYPERLINK "%22"}{\f4\insrsid15090126\charrsid15090126 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000001000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90bf80000002e002e002f002e002e002f002e002e002f002e002e002f002e002e002f002e002e002f002e002e002f002e002e002f002e002e002f002e002e002f0044006f00630075006d0065006e007400730020006100
6e0064002000530065007400740069006e00670073002f007000670061006c00760069006e002f004c006f00630061006c002000530065007400740069006e00670073002f00540065006d0070006f007200610072007900200049006e007400650072006e00650074002000460069006c00650073002f004f004c004b0031
00360031002f002500320032000000795881f43b1d7f48af2c825dc485276300000000a5ab0000}}}{\fldrslt {\f4\ul\cf2\ulc2\insrsid15090126 https://docs.openclinica.com/3.1/installation}}}{\f4\insrsid15090126  for Java, Tomcat and Postgres information.
\par 
\par Web services depends on a database that has already been upgraded by the web application to 3.1.1 and contains data.  
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par Linux Install
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 These instructions are meant to be non distro specific installation instructions for OpenClinica and its software stack. These instructions have been tested on RedHat EL5.}{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par 
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 Please contact contact@akazaresearch.com for services to assist with on-site or remote installation, validation and QA testing of OpenClinica to assure complete deployment.}{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par 
\par OS Requirements
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 The following packages should be installed on your OS: vim, unzip, tar
\par "root" user access is required, all command in this install guide should be ran with root level privileges.
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 Setup OpenClinica application and db.
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 You should already be in "/ust/local/oc/install" if not cd into it now via the command below.
\par \tab cd /usr/local/oc/install
\par \tab unzip OpenClinica-ws-3.1.1}{\f4\insrsid15090126 -Community}{\f4\insrsid15090126 *
\par \tab cd OpenClinica-ws-3.1.1}{\f4\insrsid15090126 -Community}{\f4\insrsid15090126 */distribution
\par \tab unzip OpenClinica-ws.war -d OpenClinica-ws
\par \tab cp -rf OpenClinica*-ws* /usr/local/tomcat/webapps
\par \tab rm -f /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica-ws.war
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 OpenClinica is now deployed we will configure it after we setup the databases. 
\par 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 Configuring the OpenClinica application
\par ------------------------------------------------------}{\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par The configuration of OpenClinica in 3.1.1 has gotten much easier if you followed these installation instruction you should only need to edit one parameter in the configuration file (dbPass) for OpenClinica to work. 
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par }{\f4\ul\insrsid15090126\charrsid15090126 For Web Services, the only parameter that needs to be changed is the Database Configuration
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 Once done editing these files save it and run the following commands.
\par \tab }{\f4\insrsid15090126 chown -R tomcat /usr/local/tomcat/*
\par \tab chown -R tomcat /usr/local/apache-*
\par 
\par At this point you have installed and setup tomcat, java, postgres and OpenClinica. Restart your computer and verify OpenClinica starts on boot with the following command.
\par \tab reboot
\par 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 Verify environment by viewing the home page}{\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 --------------------------------------------------------------}{\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par Go the URL of the OpenClinica web services home page.  You will see a login screen.
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par Validation and Testing
\par --------------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 Please contact contact@akazaresearch.com for services to assist with on-site or remote installation, validation and quality assurance services for OpenClinica.}{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par 
\par Developer and Contact Information
\par --------------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid15090126 Akaza Research, based in Waltham, MA, provides clinical trials informatics solutions based on OpenClinica, the world's most widely used open source clinical trials software.
\par 
\par Akaza Research
\par 460 Totten Pond Road
\par Suite 200
\par Waltham, MA  02451
\par phone: 617.621.8585
\par fax: 617.621.0065
\par email: contact@akazaresearch.com
\par 
\par For more about Akaza\'eds products and services see:
\par http://www.akazaresearch.com/
\par and
\par http://www.OpenClinica.com/ }{\b\f4\insrsid15090126 
\par }}